---
layout: post
title: Getting Started in Animal Research
subtitle: For the squeamish and afraid
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: []
author: Blaine Weiss
---

Career path is not determined by aptitude tests. You may have taken one as I did in high school, designed to inform and guide you to a career utilizing your strengths... and ideally, your interests.
When mine read engineer, I'm embarrassed to say I was confused. I had no idea what an engineer does. I had spent the majority of my life convinced that I wanted to be a physician. I wanted to help people, as
we all do pursuing the profession, and I believed my proclivity to math and science would actualize an admission to medical school. There were only a couple issues, at first, that stood in my way.
Tomo and germophobia. The sight of gore could immediately invoke sweating, anxiety, and fear. And I could barely stand around anyone that was sick. You might expect that to be a definitive deal breaker for medical school, but
my applications never got that far. In the meantime I was volunteering for a Alzheimer's disease research lab where my fears became living nightmares, and my personal circle of hell.
I should have questioned more then, why I decided to show up <ev> there <ev/> everyday, and not anywhere else. I had a job to pay my bills through undergrad, and I gave up hours to be in the lab instead. So why did I do it?

The science of course!

I stayed on as a technician for several years before joining a graduate program, and encountered students mostly unfazed by the physically and emotionally exhausting ordeal that I believed it to be.
Meanwhile I struggled through every new protocol/manipulation I needed to learn. Eventually, my feelings of fear were replaced with feelings of accomplishment, that I had conquered them.
Soon I could not only do the work but do it <ev> well <ev/>. But mastery of any technique never felt as good as the feeling of doing it right the first time, no longer afraid.

I want to share a few thoughts I had over the years that helped me, and I hope may help you.

1. Animal rights are protected: This was a big one for me, hence why I listed it at the top. 

2. The science you conduct, and the knowledge you will receive is worth facing your fear: Think of the greatest scientists of the last century. 

3. It's not as bad as it used to be: Before the refinement of protocols, molecular technology, computational biology, and AI medical science required much more labor from scientists, and animal research was essential to answer even the most basic questions.

4. The job market demands it: Researchers that do animal work are continuously in high demand at universities and in industry. This leads me to my last point.

5. This one is strange to say out loud but is the truth: The work will go on with or without you. For the fearful that might seem just alright with you, at first. But there is another fear
that many more of us face, the fear of missing out (FOMO). 

If you're someone reading who is passionate about medical research whether you've not yet begun your journey, or are in the thick of protocol training.
